
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_K_-lXnxYI
<b>Scientific / Botanical Name of Dates</b>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8iak-sC1Sys
<b>Dates Varieties / Dates Cultivars</b>

There are more than 3,000 varieties that grow around the world. The varieties have been developed for thousands of years. Those date varieties that have desirable characteristics have been propagated over centuries. Some of the most loved date varieties and in market demand are:

Kimia Dates: The fruit of this variety is black colored, creamy, and luscious. This date variety is popular in consumption as it melts in the mouth, has properties that improve health, even diabetic people can also relish.

Sagai Dates: Color of the fruits is not consistent can range between medium brown to very light brown. The dates are wrinkles but with no flake and it is mild in sweetness. This variety is also in demand for consumption.

Deglet Noor Dates: The fruits of this variety are oblong in shape. It comes in the light as well as dark brown color with huge seed. The fruits are a semi-hard and chewy type.

Medjool Dates: Trees start producing fruits from five years onwards. The trees start to yield about 10 kg in the early years and produce about 80 kg from the tenth year onwards. The fruits are large in size, soft texture, and rich flavored. Medjool variety fruits are good for diabetic people as it is sugar-free while rich in other essential minerals

Halawi Dates: The tree produces fruits that are caramel-honey flavor and are medium in size. The variety is tolerant to humidity.

Zahdi Dates: This is one of the oldest varieties. The fruits are medium size, cylindrical in shape, and light-brown in color. The fruits are rich in Vitamin A, C, and B. They are a semi-dry and chewy type with good shelf-life. The trees have a big trunk and fast growing. The variety is one of the heavy bearing varieties with less tolerance to high humidity.

Khastawi Dates: Date fruits of this variety are syrupy and small in size. It thrives well in desert conditions. The trees are large and vigorous. The fruits are resistant to humidity.

Barhee Dates: Also known as Barhi dates is a high yield variety. The tree has a large trunk and the tree is of medium height. The fruit stalks are long, wide and heavy. The date fruit is light amber to dark brown in color and cylindrical in shape. Ripe fruits are soft with thick flesh and rich flavor. The tree yields about 6 to 20 bunches of dates per tree and each bunch can weigh between 8 to 15 kg.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJakrE7_svo
<b>Climate Requirement for Dates Farming</b>

Climatic conditions such as long summer days, high temperature, and mild winters without frost are suitable for date farming. These conditions help trees for optimum growth, flowering, and fruiting. The average minimum temperature is 20° C to survive and grow. At the time of pollination, a temperature of about 35° C is required. Date trees can tolerate cold winters, but with no frost and light rain. During flowering and fruit setting a low relative humidity, an absence of rain and hot temperatures with warm nights is required.


https://www.techno-preneur.net/technology/project-profiles/food/Farming.htm
<b>Growing Plumeria From Seed (Frangipani)</b>

Seed Subsidy Schemes (Government) for Farmers in India

Neem Seed Kernel Extract – Procedure and Preparation

<b>Greenhouse Growing Problems For Beginners</b>


https://www.agrifarming.in/dates-farming
<b>Dates producing countries</b>

The largest producer of dates in the world is Iraq and it is widely grown in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Sudan, Tunisia, Morocco, Pakistan, Spain, and the United States. Date palm cultivation is practiced in India along the coastal belt in some parts of Gujarat and Saurashtra from Mandvi to Anjar. Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Kerala are the date-producing states.

<b>Is date cultivation profitable?</b>

<b>Benefits of dates farming</b>

Dates are the fruit of desert palm trees. It is one of the few crops grown in the desert. The date palm is described as the “tree of life.” The business of farming dates is very simple and has many advantages or benefits.

Palm trees usually require less maintenance, so it is very easy to start a business.

You can start a commercial palm farming business to make a good profit.

The demand and price of dates in the domestic and international market are very high. Palm trees usually grow everywhere.

Cultivating business dates can be a good business idea for you if you are an unemployed educated person. Also, it can be a great source of employment.

Production costs are relatively low in this business, and profits are good.

The marketing of dates is very easy, as there is a good demand and price for this fruit in the market. Therefore, you will be able to easily sell your products in the local market.

There are many health benefits to using dates regularly. And if you grow it on your own, you can enjoy fresh dates.

Palms are rich in iron, potassium, calcium, magnesium and are a good source of fiber. They are also rich in calories, which makes them the best source of energy.

<b>Date palm varieties</b>

There are more than 3000 varieties of palms in the world. However, not all are grown commercially.

Soft-fleshed varieties: Halawy, Medjool, Shamran (sayer), Hayani, Khadrawy, and Saidy.

Dry and semi-dry fleshed varieties: Thoory, Noor, Zahidi, Deglet, and Dayari.

Also, wild date palms can be found across the world.

Popular date palm varieties with their yield;

Barhee – The trees are tall and show strong growth. It has oval-shaped fruits which are yellow and its average weight is 12.2 grams. It gives an average yield of about 68.6 kg tree at the Doka stage i.e., early stage of fruit growth.

Hillawi – Produced in 2016. This is an early ripening variety that ripens in mid-July. The fruits are elongated in shape which is light orange with a yellow shade on the skin. The fruit contains 29.6% T.S.S and weighs an average of 15.2 grams. At the Doka stage, Hillawi gives an average yield of about 92.6 kg per tree i.e., early stage of fruit development.

Medjool – Late ripening type. The fruit is large, tall in shape, and of medium size. An average yield of 75-100 kg is obtained from an individual tree. Fruits are usually large in size, soft, and flavorful. These fruits are good for diabetics because they are sugar-free while they are rich in other essential minerals.

Khunezi – A type that ripens early. The fruits are red with a long shape. It can withstand high humidity levels. The average yield per tree is about 40 kg.

Khadarawyi – The fruits are soft and yellow. The average yield per tree is 60-80 kg.

Khalas – The fruits are long and medium in size. The fruits are yellowish-brown. The sweetness of the fruit is moderate, neither too much nor too little.

Sagai – The exact color of the fruit is not uniform, and it can range from medium brown to very light brown. The fruit is wrinkled but has no blemishes and is sweet with milk.

Zahdi – Zahdi is one of the oldest varieties of date palm. The fruits are usually of medium size, cylindrical in shape, and light brown. The trunk of the tree grows big and fast. It is one of the heavier tolerant species that tolerates less moisture.

Soil and temperature requirement for dates farming

Best soil – Sandy loam and well-drained soil with no hardpan within 60-90 cm range and pH of 8-11. Although dates can be grown in saline and alkaline soils, their growth and yield are affected.

Date palms need an arid climate (hot and dry) with temperatures between 25°C and 32°C and ample water supply. Daily maximum temperatures below 9°C and minimum temperatures below 0°C prevent growth and cause damage around -7°C. The temperature should be 18°C (in shade) as a prerequisite for palm flowers and 25°C for fruit sets.

Propagation method of off-shoots or suckers – This is the most common method of propagation . The offshoots should be picked from the base of the mother tree. 4-5 years after planting, you should separate the sucker. You can get 9-20 suckers weighing about 9-15 kg during the 4th and 10th years of the date palm tree. Throughout its productive life, a palm tree can produce 10-25 branches. It is a slow multiplication process that produces great yields.

Seeds – Farmers refrain from using this method of propagation as the fruits are of poor quality. More than half of the fruits produce males that cannot be used for future multiplication.

Palms can be grown using seeds and offshoots. The use of seeds will produce 50% of male dates which do not bear fruit. For this reason, the use of off-shoots is most common. To support root growth, the branches are pruned with a chisel and/or fixed material cultivation and transplanted in a nursery with good growth conditions (wind protection, shady trees, and soil, etc.).

Young date palms are transplanted to their permanent place after 1 year or earlier. The exact timing of transplantation depends on the growth of the root system as well as the number of palm leaves (10 to 12 is recommended). Sometimes the offshoots already have developed roots at the mother plant. In this case, the offshoots can be planted directly. Seeds are obtained through tissue culture in deeper and more specialized palm orchards. Thus, to avoid the spread of pests and diseases.

When using a row-to-row and plant-to- plant spacing of 6 meters, an acre can produce about 112 seedlings. While 63 seedlings per acre are suitable for 8m x 8m intervals.

Seed treatment – To accelerate the roots, before transplantation in the pit, immerse the sucking shoot base in IBA @ 1000ppm and Chlorpyrifos @ 5ml per liter of water for two to five minutes.

Chemicals don’t just need to be organic for better performance. Chemicals are always harmful and are used in instant synthetic processes. The palm tree will take time to grow and organic fertilizer is known for its long-lasting and healthy benefits. Cow dung manure is more than enough for tree growth.

How do dates pollinate – Dates are naturally pollinated by wind, bees, and insects. Tissue culture needs to be pollinated for commercial plants.

Are Plant Pollution Necessary – Yes, pollination is part of the life cycle of plants. Plant pollination is essential for fruit sets.

Take some male pollen and mix some cotton then put it in the middle of the flower of the female plant and tie it tightly and this process is completed.

How far should palm trees be planted – There should be a distance of 20-25 feet between two palm trees. For better fruit results, it is important to have a complete canopy.

What is pollen / Pollen use – Pollination is essential for fruit germination. This is done naturally by the wind, insects, bees, and other insects.

The density of palms is very high to make an almost closed canopy in traditional date orchards. High density protects shade and wind, thus creating a micro-climate in which harsh conditions of hot and dry climates are tempered to make living conditions somewhat more sustainable. However, higher density reduces the chances of growing secondary crops and introducing mechanization in palm cultivation.

The most common planting system in specialized afforestation is in the 8m X8m (or 9m X 9m) grid, which allows for the use of machines as well as space for secondary crops. If an old plant needs to be rejuvenated, the young palms are planted very close to the old palms so that they can be removed when the young palms start bearing fruit. Sometimes the date palm is planted around the field along with other fruit trees for cropping and horticultural production. Young date palms are planted in a hole (90 cm deep x 90 cm wide) to keep the roots close to the water table. In the traditional farming system, alkaline earth is removed and replaced with a mixture of organic manure, sand, and ash. It is also recommended to include the composted organic matter in the organic farming system.

It is recommended to prepare the hole two to three months before planting. After planting, young dates are watered daily for at least one or two weeks. Young plants should be fenced (for example, with palm leaves) to protect the palm and improve its growth conditions. In addition, a coat of straw and palm leaves is placed around the shoot to reduce water loss. Growers generally choose temperate climates for planting. However, the date palm can be planted all year round provided there is abundant water availability. To provide natural pollination, two to three male twigs are planted with about 100 female shoots to obtain pollen. Before planting new date trees, the land has to be prepared by making drainage and irrigation systems. Old stems should be removed but old palm leaves should be cut into small pieces and plowed into the ground (provided the material is not affected by pests and diseases).

Immediate irrigation is required after planting. Drought and over-irrigation do not affect date palm production. Both, though, are effective. Date palms prefer stable soil moisture levels. On the other hand, waterlogged soil should be avoided. Irrigation is not necessary during the monsoon. If there is a flood, water should be taken out. 5-6 annual irrigation is sufficient for high water level areas.

The daily intake of water for an adult palm is estimated at 150 to 200 liters. It is not possible to cultivate dates due to rains. Irrigation is required to ensure the growth and development of berries. Rain and air humidity cause fungal diseases and prevent pollination. Rainfall during the final ripening of the fruit can cause damage in many areas of palm cultivation.

Termites – These pests attack the roots of plants. Apply Chlorpyrifos by drip irrigation to control termites. To control termites, mix 800 ml of chlorpyrifos in 150 liters of water and apply it to plant roots.

Lesser date moth – As a precaution, spray two drops of Deltamethrin @ 2ml / Ltr with an interval of 15 days. Spray first at the fruiting stage.

Birds – Birds damage fruits when the crop reaches the Doka stage. Cover the bunch with a thin wire mesh.

White / Red scale – Remove affected branches or leaves from the scale and destroy them away from the field. If an attack appears, spray Acetamiprid @ 60gm / 100Ltr or Imidacloprid @ 60ml / 100Ltr with water.


https://www.agrifarming.in/dates-farming-project-report-cost-profit-guide
