<b>Murrah Buffalo Dairy Information Guide</b>Introduction of Murrah Buffaloes:- In India, Dairy farming is one of the best and profitable business which provides the rural employment. When it comes to buffalo population, India has 55% of world buffalo population. As population growing day by day, it is essential to bring the best quality put from dairy farming . Usually buffaloes have multiple advantages when compared to cross-bred cows. As milk production is generating huge profits, even educated individuals along with other firms are getting into this business. Murrah buffalo is the most preferred choice of many dairy farmers in Indian dairy farm business. Murrah breed is also known as “Delhi”, “Kundi” and “Kali”. Pure-bred Murrah buffaloes are found in Punjab, Hisar, Rohtak, Gurgaon and Jind district of Haryana and Delhi and Western Uttar Pradesh. The Murrah buffalo is good milk producer. The bulls of Murrah are extensively used to upgrade the non-descript buffalo stock. Murrah buffaloes are originated in India and distributed in Azerbaijan, Brazil, Colombia, China, Ecuador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Vietnam and Venezuela.

Let us talk about the advantages and disadvantages of Murrah Buffaloes along with other information in the following write up. Equipment cost of project, subsidies , bank loans and others can be discussed in next article.

Murrah buffaloes can able to adopt any kind of climatic conditions in India. These are grown and reared in most of the states in India.

Daily milk production is more in Murrah buffaloes. On an average Murrah Buffaloes give about 8-16 liters per day.

The other big advantages these animals are, they are more disease resistant when compared to cross-bred cows.

They can thrive on any crop residue in absence of concentrates during drought.

As Buffalo milk contains more fat, and the milk price is more. This results in good returns.

Heat detection is little difficult in Murrah buffaloes (silent heat).

Usually, Pure-bred buffaloes are not easily available as their number is less in the country.

Murrah Buffaloes are vicious when compared to cross-bred cows.

Murrah Buffalo Dairy Farm.

Neck of Murrah : Comparatively long.

Body of colour Murrah : Generally found in jet-black. However, there may be some buffaloes where white markings on face and leg are found but these are not preferred.

Eyes of Murrah Buffalo: Should not be walled.

Tail of Murrah Buffalo: Long reaching up to fetlock joint (2, 3, and 6) with black or white switch up to 8.0 inches (max).

Horns of Murrah: Different from other breeds of buffaloes; short, tight, turning backward and upward and finally spirally curving inward. The horns should be somewhat flattened. As the age increases the horns get loosened slightly but spiral curves increases.

Limbs of Murrah : Comparatively short.

Skin of Murrah Buffalo: Soft, smooth with scanty hairs as compared to other buffalo breeds.

Udder of Murrah Buffalo: Fully developed, drooping.

Teats of Murrah Buffalo: Equally distributed over the udder but hind teats are longer than fore teats.

Loin of Murrah Buffalo: Broader and sliding forward.

Body of weight Murrah : The average body weight of males, 540-550 Kg and the females, 440-450 Kg.

Height of Murrah : The average height at withers; male: 1.43 meter; female: 1.33 meter.

Age at fist calving of Murrah Buffalo: 3 years.

Inter-calving period of Murrah Buffalo: 400-500 days.

Lactation period of Murrah Buffalo: 290-300 days. (with minimum of ~230 days recorded under top quality Murrah)

Daily lactation of Murrah in peak period: 14 to 15 liters but up to 31.5 Kg milk production had also been recorded. The elite Murrah buffalo produces above 18-litter milk per day. A peak milk yield of 31.5 kg in a day has been recorded from a champion Murrah buffalo in the All India Milk Yield Competition conducted by the Government of India.

Dry period of Murrah : About three months. But less than three may be there.

Gestation period of Murrah Buffalo: 310-315 days (average).

Murrah Buffalo Price:- Price of Murrah buffalo depends on the age and lactation capacity/milking capacity and other factors. On an average, one can get these from Rs. 35,000 (Thirty five thousand to Rs 100,000 (one lakh).

Requirements and Care for Murrah Buffalo Dairy Farming:- Depending on number of buffaloes in dairy farm, one should have enough land for green fodder production to meet the daily feed requirement.

For example, if you are planning for a dairy farm with 50 buffaloes, you should own at least 10 acres of land for growing green fodder.

Shed/house should be free from any floods or water logged areas. The flooring of the house should be kept dry and clean.

Calves should be handles carefully until 4 to 5 months old as the mortality rate is high at this stage.

Timely vaccinations should be carried out to prevent from any disease outbreak.

Animals should be washed frequently to keep them clean.

Murrah Buffalo Feed Schedule Chart:-

Fodder Production:- Green fodder and Silage can be fed to the animals. In order to reduce the operational cost of dairy farm, grow your own forage and prepare silage from green fodder crops .

How to make Silage from Green Fodders: Read here.

Bottom Line:- Murrah Buffalo dairy farming is an excellent business for milk production. This breed is gaining popularity day by day and even distributed in other countries. Even it requires some capital for setting up this dairy, in long run it pays off and one can start getting huge profits by selling its milk.

September 12, 2018						    At						    6:02 am

What is concentrate and where we can get it? How much quantity is required for Murraha buffalo and what is the cost?

September 12, 2018						    At						    11:12 am

Feed concentrate will be purchased from any veterinary shops in India. Talk to any veterinary professional for appropriate feed concentrate for your dairy animals.

February 13, 2019						    At						    2:51 pm

I want start diary farm with 7 murrah buffelow in Anantapur district, Andhra pradesh. Where i need approach to purchase the buffelow. and what is approximate cost will come including transportation

April 20, 2020						    At						    7:50 am

sir, i want the diet chatrt for buffalo, cows( hf, gir , sahiwal) n their calves, during lactation and dry period

Cancel reply

Cashew Farming; Planting, Care; Harvesting – A Full Guide

Carp Fish Farming in India: How to Start, A Step-By-Step Guide for Beginners

Donkey Farming in India: How to Start, Breeds, Milk, Cost, and Management

Earning 3 Lakh Per Month From Crab Cultivation: In Cage/Box Method, A Success Story of a Mud Crab Farmer

Palmarosa Oil Extraction Methods, Process, Steps

Organic Dragon Fruit Farming – Cultivation, Business Plan


https://www.agrifarming.in/murrah-buffalo
<b>Murrah Buffalo Dairy Information.</b>+ Follow

In India, Dairy farming is one of the best and profitable business which provides the rural employment. When it comes to buffalo population, India has 55% of world buffalo population. As population growing day by day, it is essential to bring the best quality put from dairy farming. Usually buffaloes have multiple advantages when compared to cross-bred cows. As milk production is generating huge profits, even educated individuals along with other firms are getting into this business. Murrah buffalo is the most preferred choice of many dairy farmers in Indian dairy farm business. Murrah breed is also known as “Delhi”, “Kundi” and “Kali”. Pure-bred Murrah buffaloes are found in Punjab, Hisar, Rohtak, Gurgaon and Jind district of Haryana and Delhi and Western Uttar Pradesh. The Murrah buffalo is good milk producer. The bulls of Murrah are extensively used to upgrade the non-descript buffalo stock. Murrah buffaloes are originated in India and distributed in Azerbaijan, Brazil, Colombia, China, Ecuador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Viet Nam and Venezuela.

Share


https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/murrah-buffalo-dairy-information-jagdish-reddy
<b>Murrah Buffalo: Characteristics, Origin, Uses</b>LinkedIn

The Murrah buffalo is a breed of domestic water buffalo which was originated from India. It is a popular dairy buffalo breed and kept mainly for milk production.

The home tract of this breed is Fatehabad, Gurgaon, Jind, Jhajhar, Hisar and Rohtak districts of Haryana. The breed is also found in Nabha and Patiala districts of Punjab and around Delhi, and it is the pride of Haryana.

The Murrah buffalo is very popular and a very good milk producer not only in India but also probably in the world.

Today the breed is available in many countries around the world such as Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Phillippines, China, Malaysia, Nepal, Brazil, Ecuador and Azerbaijan.

The Govt. Haryana had launced an incentive cash prize for farmers to expand export of these animals.

The Murrah buffalo has been used to improve milk production of dairy buffalo in other countries such as Bulgaria, Egypt and Italy.

It is used for both meat and milk production in Brazil. However, read some more information about this very popular dairy buffalo breed below.

The Murrah buffalo is very beautiful in appearance. It is mainly jet black in color, but sometimes appear with white markings on the face or legs.

Generally they have short and tightly curved horns. Their eyes are black in color, slightly shrunken in males but active and prominent in females.

The females have long and thin neck, while the males have thick and massive neck. Their ears are short, alert and thin.

The females have fully developed, drooping udder with teats equally distributed over the udder but hind teats are longer than fore teats.

Average body height of the mature bulls is around 142 cm at the withers, and around 132 cm for the cows.

Average live body weight of the mature Murrah buffalo is around 750 kg for bulls and around 650 kg for cows. Photo and info from Wikipedia .

The Murrah buffalo is a dairy breed, and it is raised mainly for milk production. But it is also used for meat production in some countries.

Special Notes

The Murrah buffalo are very good for milk production, and very popular around the world as a dairy animal.

Average milk production of a cow is around 2200 liters in a lactation period of 310 days. Daily milk production of a cow is around 14-15 kg, with a maximum recorded production of 31.5 kg.

First calving generally occur within 3 years of age. Generally average inter-calving period is between 400 and 500 days.

Currently it is a highly prized animal and sells for a high price in both domestic and foreign markets. However, review full breed profile of the Murrah buffalo in the table below.

Special Notes

Very popular, very good for milk production, 14-15 liters average milk production, first calving generally occur within 3 years of age, 400-500 days of inter-calving period, sells for a high price in both domestic and foreign markets

People ask many questions about the buffalo breed Murrah. Here we are trying to list the most common questions about this buffalo breed, and trying to answer them. Hope you will find your answer. Don’t hesitate to ask us if you have more questions.

Is Murrah buffalo profitable?

Which buffalo gives highest milk?

Murrah is the highest milk producing buffalo breeds.

How many liters of milk does a Murrah buffalo give?

Average milk production of the Murrah buffalo can vary from 10 to 15 kg daily. And the production range from 2500 to 3600 liters of milk per lactation.

What is the price of Murrah buffalo in India?

Exact price of a Murrah buffalo can vary from place to place and depends on numerous factors. But on an average, you can expect the price between INR 50,000 and INR 1,00,000 in India.

How many months Murrah buffalo give milk?

Average lactation length of the Murrah is about 300 days.

What is the feed of Murrah buffalo?

You can feed your Murrah with regular feeds which includes grass, hay, grains etc.

How many years does a Murrah buffalo give?

Average lifespan of a Murrah buffalo is around or up to 12 years.

What are the main characteristics of Murrah buffalo?

Murrah breed of buffaloes have a massive body, neck and head comparatively long, horns short and tightly curved, udder well developed, hips broad and fore and hind quarters drooping. The tail is long reaching up to the fetlocks.


https://www.roysfarm.com/murrah-buffalo/
