<b>Azolla Cultivation Information Guide</b>

Foxtail Millet Cultivation Income, Yield, Project Report

<b>GM Crops Advantages and Disadvantages</b>

Pineapple Farming, Cultivation Techniques – A Full Guide

<b>Dragon Fruit Cultivation Information Guide</b>

<b>Greenhouse Cultivation Special Practices</b>


https://www.agrifarming.in/vermicompost
Earthworms  have been on the Earth for over 20 million years. In this time they have  faithfully done their part to keep the cycle of life continuously moving. Their purpose is simple but very  important. They are nature’s way of  recycling organic nutrients from dead tissues back to living organisms. Many have recognized the value of these  worms. Ancient civilizations, including  Greece and Egypt valued  the role earthworms played in soil. The  Egyptian Pharaoh, Cleopatra said, “Earthworms are sacred.”  She recognized the important role the worms  played in fertilizing the Nile   Valley croplands after  annual floods. Charles Darwin was  intrigued by the worms and studied them for 39 years.  Referring to an earthworm, Darwin said, “It may be doubted whether there  are many other animals in the world which have played so important a part in  the history of the world.” The earthworm  is a natural resource of fertility and life.

Earthworms  live in the soil and feed on decaying organic material. After digestion, the undigested material  moves through the alimentary canal of the earthworm, a thin layer of oil is  deposited on the castings. This layer  erodes over a period of 2 months. So although the plant nutrients are  immediately available, they are slowly released to last longer. The process in the alimentary canal of the  earthworm transforms organic waste to natural fertilizer.  The chemical changes that organic wastes  undergo include deodorizing and neutralizing. This means that the pH of the castings is 7 (neutral) and the castings  are odorless. The worm castings also  contain bacteria, so the process is continued in the soil, and microbiological  activity is promoted.

Vermicompost ready for sale

Vermicomposting is the process of turning organic debris  into worm castings. The worm castings are very important to the fertility of  the soil. The castings contain high  amounts of nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, and magnesium. Castings  contain: 5 times the available nitrogen, 7 times the available potash, and 1 ½  times more calcium than found in good topsoil. Several researchers have  demonstrated that earthworm castings have excellent aeration, porosity,  structure, drainage, and moisture-holding capacity. The content of the  earthworm castings, along with the natural tillage by the worms burrowing  action, enhances the permeability of water in the soil.  Worm castings can hold close to nine times  their weight in water.  “Vermiconversion,” or using earthworms to convert waste into soil  additives, has been done on a relatively small scale for some time. A  recommended rate of vermicompost application is 15-20 percent.

Vermicomposting  is done on small and large scales. In  the 1996 Summer Olympics in Sydney,   Australia, the  Australians used worms to take care of their tons and tons of waste.They then found that waste produced by the  worms was could be very beneficial to their plants and soil. People in the U.S. have  commercial vermicomposting facilities, where they raise worms and sell the  castings that the worms produce. Then  there are just people who own farms or even small gardens, and they may put  earthworms into their compost heap, and then use that for fertilizer.

Vermicompost  and its utilization Vermicompost  is nothing but the excreta of earthworms, which is rich in humus and nutrients.  We can rear earthworms artificially in a brick tank or near the stem / trunk of  trees (specially horticultural trees). By feeding these earthworms with biomass  and watching properly the food (bio-mass) of earthworms, we can produce the  required quantities of vermicompost.

:

Pre digestion of organic waste for twenty days by heaping    the material along with cattle dung slurry.     This process partially digests the material and fit for earthworm    consumption.  Cattle dung and biogas    slurry may be used after drying.  Wet    dung should not be used for vermicompost production.

:

Preparation of earthworm bed. A concrete base is required    to put the waste for vermicompost preparation.  Loose soil will allow the worms to go into    soil and also while watering, all the dissolvable nutrients go into the soil    along with water.

:

Collection of earthworm after vermicompost    collection.  Sieving the composted    material to separate fully composted material.  The partially composted material will be    again put into vermicompost bed.

What  Worms Need

The  Five Essentials Compost  worms need five basic things:

Bedding

Bedding is any  material that provides the worms with a relatively stable habitat. This habitat  must have the following characteristics:

High  absorbency

Worms breathe through their skins and therefore must have a  moist environment in which to live. If a worm’s skin dries out, it dies. The  bedding must be able to absorb and retain water fairly well if the worms are to  thrive.

Good  bulking potential

If the material is too dense to begin with, or packs too  tightly, then the flow of air is reduced or eliminated. Worms require oxygen to  live, just as we do. Different materials affect the overall porosity of the bedding  through a variety of factors, including the range of particle size and shape,  the texture, and the strength and rigidity of its structure. The overall effect  is referred to in this document as the material’s bulking potential.

Low  protein and/or nitrogen content (high Carbon: Nitrogen ratio)

Although the  worms do consume their bedding as it breaks down, it is very important that  this be a slow process. High protein/nitrogen levels can result in rapid  degradation and its associated heating, creating inhospitable, often fatal,  conditions. Heating can occur safely in the food layers of the vermiculture or  vermicomposting system, but not in the bedding.

Requirements

Housing: Sheltered culturing of worms is       recommended to protect the worms from excessive sunlight and rain. All the       entrepreneurs have set up their units in vacant cowsheds, poultry sheds,       basements and back yards.

Containers: Cement tanks were constructed.       These were separated in half by a dividing wall. Another set of tanks were       also constructed for preliminary decomposition.

Bedding and feeding materials: During the       beginning of the enterprises, most women used cowdung in order to breed       sufficient numbers of earthworms. Once they have large populations, they       can start using all kinds of organic waste. Half of the entrepreneurs have       now reached populations of 12,000 to 15,000 adult earthworms.

i)  Selection of suitable earthworm

For  vermicompost production, the surface dwelling earthworm alone should be  used. The earthworm, which lives below  the soil, is not suitable for vermicompost production.  The African earthworm (Eudrillus  engenial), Red worms (Eisenia foetida) and composting worm (Peronyx excavatus) are promising  worms used for vermicompost production.  All the three worms can be mixed together for vermicompost  production. The African worm (Eudrillus  eugenial) is preferred over other two types, because it produces higher  production of vermicompost in short period of time and more young ones in the  composting period.

African earthworm (Eudrillus euginiae)

ii)  Selection of site for vermicompost production

Vermicompost  can be produced in any place with shade, high humidity and cool. Abandoned cattle shed or poultry shed or  unused buildings can be used.  If it is  to be produced in open area, shady place is selected.  A thatched roof may be provided to protect  the process from direct sunlight and rain.  The waste heaped for vermicompost production should be covered with  moist gunny bags.

iii)  Containers for vermicompost production

A cement tub  may be constructed to a height of 2½ feet and a breadth of 3 feet. The length may be fixed to any level  depending upon the size of the room.  The  bottom of the tub is made to slope like structure to drain the excess water  from vermicompost unit. A small sump is  necessary to collect the drain water.

In another  option over the hand floor, hollow blocks / bricks may be arranged in  compartment to a height of one feet, breadth of 3 feet and length to a desired  level to have quick harvest. In this method, moisture assessment will be very easy.  No excess water will be drained. Vermicompost  can also be prepared in wooden boxes, plastic buckets or in any containers with  a drain hole at the bottom.

iv)  Vermiculture bed

Vermiculture bed or worm bed (3 cm) can be  prepared by placing after saw dust or husk or coir waste or sugarcane trash in  the bottom of tub / container. A layer  of fine sand (3 cm) should be spread over the culture bed followed by a layer  of garden soil (3 cm).  All layers must  be moistened with water.

56    - 123

If available,  shredded paper or cardboard makes an excellent bedding,  particularly when combined with typical on-farm organic resources such as straw  and hay. Organic producers, however, must be careful to ensure that such  materials are not restricted under their organic certification standards. Paper  or cardboard fibre collected in municipal waste programs cannot be approved for  certification purposes. There may be cases, however, where fibre resources from  specific generators could be sourced and approved. This must be considered on a  case-by-case basis. Another material in this category is paper-mill sludge, which has the high absorbency and small  particle size that so well complements the high C:N ratios and good bulking  properties of straw, bark, shipped brush or wood shavings. Again, the sludge  must be approved if the user has organic certification.

In general,  it should be noted by the reader that the selection of bedding materials is a  key to successful vermiculture or vermicomposting. Worms can be enormously productive (and  reproductive) if conditions are good; however, their efficiency drops off  rapidly when their basic needs are not met (see discussion on moisture below).  Good bedding mixtures are an essential element in meeting those needs. They  provide protection from extremes in temperature, the necessary levels and  consistency of moisture, and an adequate supply of oxygen. Fortunately, given  their critical importance to the process, good bedding mixtures are generally  not hard to come by on farms. The most difficult criterion to meet adequately  is usually absorption, as most straws and even hay are not good at holding  moisture. This can be easily addressed by mixing some aged or composted cattle  or sheep manure with the straw. The result is somewhat similar in its bedding  characteristics to aged horse manure.

Mixing  beddings need not be an onerous process; it can be done by hand with a  pitchfork (small operations), with a tractor bucket (larger operations), or, if  one is available, with an agricultural feed mixer. Please note that the latter  would only be appropriate for large commercial vermicomposting operations where  high efficiency levels and consistent product quality is required.

v) Worm Food

Compost worms  are big eaters. Under ideal conditions, they are able to consume in excess of  their body weight each day, although the general rule-of-thumb is ½ of their  body weight per day. They will eat almost anything organic (that is, of plant  or animal 

          origin), but  they definitely prefer some foods to others. Manures are the most commonly used  worm feedstock, with dairy and beef manures generally considered the best  natural food for Eisenia, with the possible exception of rabbit manure. The former, being more often available in large  quantities, is the feed most often used.

High N content results in good nutrition and a high-value    product

High protein levels can be dangerous to worms, so must be    used in small quantities; major adaptation required for worms not used to    this feedstock. May be pre-composted but not necessary if used cautiously

Rabbit manure

N content second only to poultry manure, there-fore good    nutrition; contains very good mix of vitamins & minerals; ideal    earth-worm feed

Must be leached prior to use because of high urine content;    can overheat if quantities too large; availability usually not good

Fresh food scraps (e.g., peels, other food prep waste,    leftovers, commercial food processing wastes)

Excellent nutrition, good moisture content, possibility of    revenues from waste tipping fees

Extremely variable (depending on source); high N can result    in overheating; meat & high-fat wastes can create anaerobic conditions    and odours, attract pests, so should NOT be included without pre-composting

Pre-composted food wastes

Good nutrition; partial decomposition makes digestion by    worms easier and faster; can include meat and other greasy wastes; less    tendency to overheat.

Excellent nutrition and excellent product; can be activated    or non-activated sludge, septic sludge; possibility of waste management    revenues

Heavy metal and/or chemical contam-ination (if from    municipal sources); odour during application to beds (worms control fairly    quickly); possibility of pathogen survival if process not complete

Seaweed

Good nutrition; results in excellent product, high in    micronutrients and beneficial microbes

Legume hays

Higher N content makes these good feed as well as reasonable    bedding.

Legume hays

Higher N content makes these good feed as well as reasonable    bedding.

Corrugated cardboard (including waxed)

Excellent nutrition (due to high-protein glue used to hold    layers together); worms like this material; possible revenue source from WM    fees

Must be shredded (waxed variety) and/or soaked (non-waxed)    prior to feeding

Fish, poultry offal; blood wastes; animal mortalities

High N content provides good nutrition; opportunity to turn    problematic wastes into high-quality product

vi) Selection  for vermicompost production

Cattle dung (except pig, poultry  and goat), farm wastes, crop residues, vegetable market waste, flower market  waste, agro industrial waste, fruit market waste and all other bio degradable  waste are suitable for vermicompost production.   The cattle dung should be dried in open sunlight before used for  vermicompost production.  All other waste  should be predigested with cow dung for twenty days before put into vermibed  for composting.

vii)  Putting the waste in the container

The predigested waste material  should be mud with 30% cattle dung either by weight or volume. The mixed waste  is placed into the tub / container upto brim.  The moisture level should be maintained at 60%. Over this material, the selected earthworm is  placed uniformly. For one-meter length,  one-meter breadth and 0.5-meter height, 1 kg of worm (1000 Nos.) is  required. There is no necessity that  earthworm should be put inside the waste.  Earthworm will move inside on its own.

viii)  Watering the vermibed

Daily watering is not required  for vermibed. But 60% moisture should be  maintained throughout the period.  If  necessity arises, water should be sprinkled over the bed rather than pouring  the water. Watering should be stopped before  the harvest of vermicompost.

ix)  Harvesting vermicompost

In the tub  method of composting, the castings formed on the top layer are collected  periodically. The collection may be  carried out once in a week.  With hand  the casting will be scooped out and put in a shady place as heap like  structure.  The harvesting of casting  should be limited up to earthworm presence on top layer.  This periodical harvesting is necessary for  free flow and retain the compost quality.  Other wise the finished compost get compacted when watering is done. In  small bed type of vermicomposting method, periodical harvesting is not  required.  Since the height of the waste  material heaped is around 1 foot, the produced vermicompost will be harvested  after the process is over.

x)  Harvesting earthworm

After the vermicompost  production, the earthworm present in the tub / small bed may be harvested by  trapping method.  In the vermibed, before  harvesting the compost, small, fresh cow dung ball is made and inserted inside the  bed in five or six places. After 24  hours, the cow dung ball is removed. All  the worms will be adhered into the ball.   Putting the cow dung ball in a bucket of water will separate this  adhered worm.  The collected worms will  be used for next batch of composting.

Worm  harvesting is usually carried out in order to sell the worms, rather than to start new worm beds. Expanding the operation (new beds)  can be accomplished by splitting the beds that is, removing a portion of the  bed to start a new one and replacing the material with new bedding and feed.  When worms are sold, however, they are usually separated, weighed, and then  transported in a relatively sterile medium, such as peat moss. To accomplish  this, the worms must first be separated from the bedding and vermicompost.  There are three basic categories of methods used by growers to harvest worms:  manual, migration, and mechanical. Each of these is described  in more detail in the sections that follow.

a) Manual  Methods

Manual  methods are the ones used by hobbyists and smaller-scale growers, particularly  those who sell worms to the home-vermicomposting or bait market. In essence,  manual harvesting involves hand-sorting, or picking the worms directly from the  compost by hand. This process can be facilitated by taking advantage of the  fact that worms avoid light. If material containing worms is dumped in a pile  on a flat surface with a light above, the worms will quickly dive below the  surface. The harvester can then remove a layer of compost, stopping when worms  become visible again. This process is repeated several times until there is  nothing left on the table except a huddled mass of worms under a thin covering  of compost. These worms can then be quickly scooped into a container, weighed,  and prepared for delivery.

There are  several minor variations and/or enhancements on this method, such as using a  container instead of a flat surface, or making several piles at once, so that  the person harvesting can move from one to another, returning to the first one  in time to remove the next layer of compost. They are all labour-intensive,  however, and only make sense if the operation is small and the value of the  worms is high.

b) Self-Harvesting  (Migration) Methods

These  methods, like some of the methods used in vermicomposting, are based on the  worms tendency to migrate to new regions, either to find new food or to avoid  undesirable conditions, such as dryness or light. Unlike the manual methods  described above, however, they often make use of simple mechanisms, such as  screens or onion bags.

The screen  method is very common and easy to use. A box is constructed with a screen  bottom. The mesh is usually ¼”, although 1/8” can be used as wel. There are two different approaches. The downward-migration system is  similar to the manual system, in that the worms are forced downward by strong  light. The difference with the screen system is that the worms go down through  the screen into a prepared, pre-weighed container of moist peat moss. Once the  worms have all gone through, the compost in the box is removed and a new batch  of worm-rich compost is put in. The process is repeated until the box with the  peat moss has reached the desired weight. Like the manual method, this system  can be set up in a number of locations at once, so that the worm harvester can  move from one box to the next, with no time wasted waiting for the worms to  migrate.

The upward-migration  system is similar, except that the box with the mesh bottom is placed directly  on the worm bed. It has been filled with a few centimeters of damp peat moss  and then sprinkled with a food attractive to worms, such as chicken mash,  coffee grounds, or fresh cattle manure. The box is removed and weighed after  visual inspection indicates that sufficient worms have moved up into the  material. This system is used extensively in Cuba, with the difference that  large onion bags are used instead of boxes. The advantage of  this system is that the worm beds are not disturbed. The main disadvantage is  that the harvested worms are in material that contains a fair amount of  unprocessed food, making the material messier and opening up the possibility of  heating inside the package if the worms are shipped. The latter problem can be  avoided by removing any obvious food and allowing a bit of time for the worms  to consume what is left before packaging.

xi)  Nutritive value of vermicompost

The nutrients content in  vermicompost vary depending on the waste materials that is being used for  compost preparation. If the waste  materials are heterogeneous one, there will be wide range of nutrients  available in the compost. If the waste  materials are homogenous one, there will be only certain nutrients are  available. The common available nutrients in vermicompost is as follows

128 – 548 mg kg-1

xii)  Storing and packing of vermicompost The harvested  vermicompost should be stored in dark, cool place. It should have minimum 40% moisture. Sunlight should not fall over the composted  material.  It will lead to loss of  moisture and nutrient content. It is  advocated that the harvested composted material is openly stored rather than  packed in over sac. Packing can be done  at the time of selling. If it is stored  in open place, periodical sprinkling of water may be done to maintain moisture  level and also to maintain beneficial microbial population. If the necessity comes to store the material,  laminated over sac is used for packing. This will minimize the moisture evaporation loss. Vermicompost can be stored for one year  without loss of its quality, if the moisture is maintained at 40% level.

4. Advantages of vermicompost

Vermicompost is rich in all essential plant  nutrients.

Provides excellent effect on overall plant  growth, encourages the growth of new

shoots / leaves and improves the quality and  shelf life of the produce.

odour.

soil erosion.

Vermicompost is rich in beneficial micro flora  such as a fixers, P- solubilizers,

cellulose decomposing micro-flora etc in  addition to improve soil environment.

It prevents nutrient losses and increases the use  efficiency of chemical fertilizers.

Vermicompost is free from pathogens, toxic  elements, weed seeds etc.

Vermicompost minimizes the incidence of pest and  diseases.

It enhances the decomposition of organic matter  in soil.

5. Pests  and Diseases of vermicompost

Compost worms  are not subject to diseases caused by micro-organisms, but they are subject to  predation by certain animals and insects (red mites are the worst) and to a  disease known as “sour crop” caused by environmental conditions.


https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/org_farm/orgfarm_vermicompost.html
<b>Permitted Uses</b>The .gov means it’s official.

Federal government websites always use a .gov or .mil domain. Before sharing sensitive information online, make sure you’re on a .gov or .mil site by inspecting your browser’s address (or “location”) bar.

This site is also protected by an SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) certificate that’s been signed by the U.S. government. The https:// means all transmitted data is encrypted  — in other words, any information or browsing history that you provide is transmitted securely.

Commodity Procurement

This guidance provides clarification on allowed practices for composition, production, and use of compost and vermicompost in organic crop production.

Scope

Background

The NOP regulation 7 CFR 205.203(c), the soil fertility and crop nutrient management practice standard, sets forth the requirements for management and application of plant and animal materials. This section of the NOP regulations provides specific requirements for the use of compost and raw manure, but does not describe the full range of methods that may be used for compost production.

A key provision of the NOP regulations regarding addition of organic matter is found at § 205.203, which states:

“The producer must manage plant and animal materials to maintain or improve soil organic matter content in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, pathogenic organisms, heavy metals, or residues of prohibited substances.”

Section 205.203 further states that animal and plant materials include three types of materials: raw manure, composted plant and animal materials, and uncomposted plant materials. Raw manure is restricted in use, and compost containing animal materials must be produced under certain conditions. The designated types of systems do not include common methods of composting such as in piles (rather than windrows) or include any reference to vermicompost.

The National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) convened two task forces that delivered comprehensive reports to the NOSB on compost (2002) and compost tea (2004). The NOSB then made a final recommendation on compost, compost tea, processed manure, and vermicompost in November 2006.

The NOP concurs with the NOSB that the examples provided in § 205.203(c)(1-3) is not a finite list of acceptable plant and animal materials for use in organic production. Site-specific variation in feedstock materials, management practices, and production requirements dictate that organic producers exercise flexibility in managing plant and animal materials on their operations.

In July 2007, the NOP issued NOP 5006 - Processed Animal Manures. NOP 5006 clarifies the criteria for production of processed manure products that may be used without restriction in organic production. While the use of processed animal manures was clarified in NOP 5006, the use of vermicompost was not addressed in that guidance. Vermicompost is an alternative method for meeting the NOP compost requirements. Vermicomposts are organic matter of plant and/or animal origin, consisting mainly of finely-divided earthworm castings, produced non-thermophilically with bio-oxidation and stabilization of the organic material, due to interactions between aerobic microorganisms and earthworms, as the material passes through the earthworm gut.

Feed stocks for vermicompost materials include organic matter of plant or animal origin, preferably thoroughly macerated and mixed before processing. Pathogenic organisms are eliminated in 7-60 days, depending on the technology used. Vermicomposting systems depend upon regular additions of thin layers of organic matter at 1-3 day intervals to maintain aerobic conditions and avoid temperature increases above 35 degrees C (95 degrees F) which will kill the earthworms. Methods of vermicomposting include outdoor windrows (usually managed for 6-12 months), angled wedge systems (usually managed for 2-4 months), indoor container systems (usually managed for 2-4 months) and continuous flow reactors (usually managed for 30-60 days). For outdoor windrows, one indicator that the process is complete is when the worms move out of the compost, which would typically take 6 months in warm conditions, or up to 12 months in colder climates.

Earthworms fragment the organic wastes into finely-divided materials with a low C:N ratio and high microbial activity. Nitrogen is mostly found in the nitrate form, and potassium and phosphorus are in soluble forms. For most organic wastes, no traces of the raw materials are visible. Processing is maintained at 70-90% moisture content with temperatures maintained in the range of 18-30 degrees C (65-86 degrees F) for good productivity.

General

Compost and vermicompost production practices should be described in the operation’s organic system plan (OSP). Certifying agents may allow the use of compost if they review the OSP and records and are assured that all requirements are met. Compost production records should include the type and source of all feedstock materials. When animal materials are used in compost production, the certified operation should maintain temperature monitoring logs, and document the practices used to achieve uniform elevated temperatures. Vermicompost production records should include the type and source of all feedstock materials. When animal materials are used to produce vermicompost, the certified operation should maintain a log of duration of vermicomposting with a description of the practices used to achieve aerobic conditions and maintain adequate moisture. Certifiers reviewing compost inputs produced by commercial operators should similarly review the production methods and source materials.

Certified operations can also demonstrate compliance with the compost requirements by measuring temperature, time, moisture content, chemical composition, and biological activity. These measurements may include testing feedstock materials and compost for one or more characteristicsincluding initial and final carbon to nitrogen ratios, stability (using ammonia/nitrate ratio, O2 demand, CO2 respiration rate, or other standard tests), pathogenic organisms, or contaminants.

Compost

Compost containing plant and animal materials is allowed in accordance with § 205.203(c)(2). Other examples of acceptable composting methods include:

Compost that is made from allowed feedstock materials (either nonsynthetic substances not prohibited at § 205.602, or synthetics approved for use as plant or soil amendments), and

The compost pile is mixed or managed to ensure that all of the feedstock heats to the minimum of 131o F (55o C) for a minimum of three days. The monitoring of the above parameters must be documented in the OSP in accordance with § 205.203(c) and verified during the site visit.

Vermicompost

Vermicomposting is an acceptable method of composting when:

It is made from allowed feedstock materials (either nonsynthetic substances not prohibited at § 205.602, or synthetics approved for use as plant or soil amendments);

Aerobic conditions are maintained by regular additions of layers of organic matter, turning, or employing forced air pipes such that moisture is maintained at 70-90%; and

The duration of vermicomposting is sufficient to produce a finished product that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, pathogenic organisms, heavy metals, or residues of prohibited substances.

Permitted Uses

Composts containing animal materials that do not meet the requirements at 4.2 and vermicomposts containing animal materials that do not meet the requirements at 4.3 of this policy may be permitted subject to restrictions of § 205.203(c)(1), similar to raw animal manure, provided all feedstocks are allowed materials (either nonsynthetic substances not prohibited at § 205.602, or synthetics approved for use as plant or soil amendments).

Compost and vermicompost made without animal materials as feedstock are not restricted in use, in accordance with the provision for uncomposted plant materials at § 205.203(c)(3), provided all feedstocks are allowed materials (either nonsynthetic substances not prohibited at § 205.602, or synthetics approved for use as plant or soil amendments).

7 CFR § 205.203 Soil fertility and crop nutrient management practice standard.

(c) The producer must manage plant and animal materials to maintain or improve soil organic matter content in a manner that does not contribute to contamination of crops, soil, or water by plant nutrients, pathogenic organisms, heavy metals, or residues of prohibited substances. Animal and plant materials include: (1) Raw animal manure, which must be composted unless it is… (2) Composted plant and animal materials produced through a process that… (3) Uncomposted plant materials. 7 CFR § 205.602 Nonsynthetic substances prohibited for use in organic crop production.

NOSB Recommendations

November 2006, Final NOSB Recommendation on Guidance: Use of Compost, Vermicompost, Processed Manure, and Compost Teas.


https://www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/organic/handbook/5021
