<b>Organic Farming In Telangana, How To Start, Tips</b>

How to Keep Chrysanthemums Blooming: Ideas, Tricks, Techniques, and Secretes

Earning 3 Lakh Per Month from Organic Farming: A Success Story of an Agriculture Farmer

Country Chicken Farming (Desi Chicken) – A Full Guide

Top 15 Steps/Ways/Methods to Boost Hazelnut Yield: How to Increase Production, Size, and Quality

How to Start Apple Farming in USA: A Step-by-Step Planting to Harvesting, and Production Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAoljAn1DG4
<b>How To Grow Hydroponic Strawberries</b>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_EL8DL1N-lQ
<b>Coconut Gardening for Beginners, How to Start</b>

Date Palm Seed Germination, Time, Temperature (Kajura)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNxxsb76tJw

https://www.agrifarming.in/chickpea-farming
<b>Seed and Sowing</b>

Experiments conducted under the All India Co-ordinated Pulse Improvement Project at different Centres over last several years, clearly indicate that second fortnight of October is the optimum time for sowing, in most of the chick pea growing areas of northern India. In case of peninsular India, the first fortnight of October has been considered as the ideal time for chickpea sowing.

Early sowing of chickpea results in excessive vegetative growth and poor setting of pods. The early sown crop suffers more from wilt owing to high temperature at that time. The crop may be sown by seed drill or local plow and row spacing should be 30-40 centimeters. For one hectare land a seed rate of 75-100 kg per hectare will be sufficient, depending upon seed size. The seed should be placed 8-10 centimeters deep and before sowing, the shallow is treated with 0.25 per cent Thiram or Carbendazim (Bavistin).

Manure and Fertilizer Applications

Chickpea is a leguminous crop therefore it can meet its nitrogen requirement (about 75%) through symbiotic nitrogen fixation from three to four weeks of sowing. However, soils with low organic matter and poor nitrogen supply may still require 20-25 kg per hectare of nitrogen. Besides nitrogen, pulses respond very favorably to the phosphorous application, in case Phosphorus is not available in sufficient proportion in the soil.  If the soil needs nitrogen as well as phosphorous, then di-ammonium phosphate (18-46-0) at the rate of 100 to 150 kg per hectare should be applied uniformly before the last plowing. The results are quite better if all the fertilizers are drilled in furrows at a depth of 7-10 centimeters.

Chickpea is mostly sown in rainfed conditions. However, pre-sowing irrigation is necessary where irrigation facilities are available since it ensures proper germination and smoother crop growth. One irrigation at the pre-flowering stage is given and one at the pod development stage, in case the winter rains are inadequate. It is important that first irrigation should not be given at flowering time of gram crop. Also, heavy irrigation is always harmful to gram crop because excess irrigation enhances vegetative growth and depresses chickpea yield. Therefore light irrigation should be given.

Planting

Most gardening centers and home improvement stores don't carry chickpea seeds, so one probably need to order them. Online searches can be done for ordering seeds. Make 1.5- to 2-inch deep holes 3 to 4 inches apart, drop a seed in each one, and cover them with soil. Water should be provided regularly. Like Productivity, planting the seeds with proper depth and distance is very important.

Growing

If the seeds are able to sprout within 10 to 14 days, it is a normal phenomenon. Soil is to be kept moist therefore one should water regularly and evenly throughout the growing season. In cooler areas, chickpea plants will need about an inch of water per week, but in warmer climates, water requirement can increase to two inches roughly. When plants are 2 to 3 inches tall, thin them out so that there remains a single plant every 6 inches.  This is done to support normal growth process. Normally scissors can be used to trim or thin them. Simply the extra growth of each plant is trimmed through scissors so that the roots of neighboring plants are not disturbed.

Weed Control

Weed control is a vital activity in chickpeas as infestation of weeds is the major problem for this crop.  One hand weeding or inter culture with hand hoe or wheel hoe after 25-30 days can be done, and if needed then second round of weeding can be done. Fluchloralin (Basalin) 1 kg per hectare in 800-1000 liters of water as pre-planting spray may be used as an effective herbicide. It should be well incorporated in the soil before sowing.  Use Metribuzin or Prometrynen at the rate of 1.0-1.5 kg active ingredient in 800-1000 liters of water per hectare in case Basalin is unavailable. Hand weeding or inter culture with the help of hoe is preferable than use of herbicides since inter culture operations improve soil aeration.

1200

All plant debris and stubbles are removed before ploughing as chickpeas need and firm and smooth seedbed Costing is near to Rs.1200.

2300

Farmyard Manure of 3-4 tonnes to be added to the field. For an acre, recommended NPK dosage is Urea 18 kgs, SSP 125 kgs and Potash 14 Kgs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLxAciSzttY
<b>Net Profit Per Acre from Chickpeas Farming</b>

The Superior Desi Chickpeas were being traded around Rs.4900/quintal as on September 7, 2020. Farmers normally obtain around 8 quintal crop per acre. So the net realization in selling 8 quintals will be Rs.39200. Therefore after deducting the production cost, overall profit from one acre of land will be Rs.27500 (approximately).

<b>Show your support to Agri-Journalism</b>

Dear patron, thank you for being our reader. Readers like you are an inspiration for us to move Agri Journalism forward. We need your support to keep delivering quality Agri Journalism and reach the farmers and people in every corner of rural India. Every contribution is valuable for our future.


https://krishijagran.com/agripedia/complete-guide-to-chickpeas-farming-varieties-climate-requirement-harvesting-yield-and-economics/
<b>Change text size</b>Annual crop, grown in dry climates, traditionally during the post-rainy season in South and Southeast Asia; during the winter rainfall season in West Asia, Middle East, and South Mediterranean Region and in springtime in North America and North Mediterranean. There are two main groups of chickpea – desi and kabuli – mainly distinguished by seed size, shape and color. The two types have different production requirements, markets and end-uses.

Chickpea is the largest produced food legume in South Asia and the third largest produced food legume globally, after common bean and field pea. Chickpea is grown in more than 50 countries. India accounting for 64% of the global chickpea production and other major chickpea producing countries include Pakistan, Turkey, Iran, Myanmar, Australia, Ethiopia, Canada, Mexico and Iraq.

Growth conditions: Chickpea is harvested 2.5-6 months after sowing (depending upon cultivars and latitude) at maturity for seed threshing. Preferably grown on clay loam to sandy loam soils, well-drained, pH>7, but is often confined to poor lands and heavy black or red soils.

Needs adequate soil moisture during germination and seed development. Well-drained soils are best suited for chickpea production, the crop does not tolerate wet soils and water logging can result in a poorly developed root system. When dry conditions are encountered later in the season, the plant may not be able to obtain adequate moisture and nutrients to meet its needs. It is generally unirrigated, but the area under irrigation is increasing due to responsiveness to appropriate water management.

Nutrient requirements: one ton of chickpea grain remove

The chickpea fertilization program depends on the nutrient status of the field, and thus, vary from field to field and the fertilizers amount should be determined based on the results of soil test. General chickpea nutrient recommendation is 20–30 kg nitrogen (N) and 40–60 kg phosphorus (P) and 17 to 30 kg K2O per ha.

N- Chickpea can fix 60 to 80 per cent of its nitrogen requirement through nitrogen fixation. small amounts of starter nitrogen may help seedlings remain healthy and vigorous during the period of early development until nodulation kicks in which is approximately three to four weeks after germination.

P- Phosphorus is an important plant nutrient for chickpea because it has a relatively high requirement for the nutrient. Sufficient soil phosphorus is required for nitrogen fixation and promotes earlier maturity. Phosphorus promotes the development of extensive root systems and vigorous seedlings, good nodule development and more uniform maturity. Chickpeas also respond to phosphorous fertilizer with higher yields and larger seed size.

K- Chickpeas consume large amounts of potassium and these amounts removed by the crop must be returned to the soil to prevent future soil potassium deficiencies. Potassium is a key nutrient in the plant's tolerance to stress, such as high/low temperatures, drought, disease, and pest occurrences. Since chickpea is normally cultivated in relatively poor soil residual soil moisture, an application of 30 kg K2O/ha-1 is recommended for optimal growth, good quality, increase of yield, improvement of soil fertility and a maximum net profit.

Micronutrients- Micronutrients deficiencies can limit achieve high yields and micronutrients application is recommended. The important micronutrients for chickpea include sulfur (S), zinc (Zn), iron (Fe), boron (B) and molybdenum (Mo). The requirements of these micronutrients vary from field to field and should be determined based on the results of soil analysis.

References

CHICKPEA PRODUCTION: NORTHERN REGION [Online] // PULSE Australia. - 1 15, 2016. - 9 2, 2021. - https://www.pulseaus.com.au/growing-pulses/bmp/chickpea/northern-guide.

Gaur et al. Chickpea Seed Production Manual [Report]. - Patancheru 502 324, Andhra Pradesh, India : International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, 2010.

Goud, V. V., et al. "Response of chickpea to potassium fertilization on yield, quality, soil fertility and economic in vertisols." [Article] // Legume Research. - 2014.

International Fertilizer Industry Association "World fertilizer use manual." [Book]. - BASF Agricultural Research Station, Limburgerhof, Germany : [s.n.], 1992.

Chickpea crop requirements

Seeding Tips for Chickpeas

Abstract: For growers in the Brown and Dark Brown soil zones in Saskatchewan, chickpeas are a good pulse crop option.

The Haifa newsletter keeps you updated on advanced plant nutrition information,

and provides the latest news & events you and your crops should know about.

Enter your email and get the very latest from Haifa

Pioneering The Future

Haifa Group is a world leader in the field of specialty fertilizers. The company sells a wide range of quality products in more than 100 countries through 17 subsidiaries spread throughout the world. Since its establishment in 1966, Haifa brand has been considered a symbol of quality and pioneering in the global agricultural industry.

News & Events


https://www.haifa-group.com/chickpea-crop-requirements
